Tiny agents in Python (#2869)
huggingface/blog: python-tiny-agents.md

---

> title: "Tiny Agents in Python: a MCP-powered agent in ~70 lines of code"

Reviewer: 👍

thumbnail: /blog/assets/python-tiny-agents/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: celinah
- user: julien-c

> - user: Wauplin

Reviewer: maybe hf.co/evalstate (@evalstate) as guest

Author: yes of course, my bad! done in [cbcea07](https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/2869/commits/cbcea0743a2cb124089960e021f5667d5c954b54)

        # for "stdio": {"command": "my_tool_server_cmd", "args": ["--port", "1234"]}
        # for "http": {"url": "http://my.tool.server/mcp"}

        # 1. Establish connection based on type (stdio, sse, http)
        #    (Uses mcp.client.stdio_client, sse_client, or streamablehttp_client)
        read, write = await self.exit_stack.enter_async_context(...)

        # 2. Create an MCP ClientSession
        session = await self.exit_stack.enter_async_context(
            ClientSession(read_stream=read, write_stream=write, ...)
        )
        await session.initialize()

        # 3. List tools from the server
        response = await session.list_tools()
        for tool in response.tools:
            # Store session for this tool
            self.sessions[tool.name] = session 
            #  Add tool to the list of available tools and Format for LLM
            self.available_tools.append({ 
                "type": "function",
                "function": {
                    "name": tool.name,
                    "description": tool.description,
                    "parameters": tool.input_schema,
                },
            })

```

> It supports `stdio` servers for local tools (like accessing your file system), and `sse`/`http` servers for remote tools!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It supports `stdio` servers for local tools (like accessing your file system), and `http` servers for remote tools! (and even compatible with `sse` which is the previous standard for remote tools)
```

(maybe, not sure)

        return # The Agent's main loop will handle this signal

    # b. It's a regular tool: find the MCP session and execute it
    session = self.sessions.get(function_name) # self.sessions maps tool names to MCP connections
    if session is not None:
        result = await session.call_tool(function_name, function_args)
        tool_message["content"] = format_result(result) # format_result processes tool output
    else:
        tool_message["content"] = f"Error: No session found for tool: {function_name}"

    # Add tool result to history and yield it
    ...

```

here, it first check if the tool called is a special control signal (an `exit_loop_tool`). If not, it finds the correct MCP session responsible for that tool and calls `session.call_tool()`. The result (it can be an error as well) is then formatted, added to the conversation history, and yielded so the Agent is aware of the tool's output.

## Our Tiny Python Agent: It's (Almost) Just a Loop! 

With the MCPClient doing all the job for tool interactions, our Agent class becomes wonderfully simple. It inherits from MCPClient and adds the conversation management logic.

> [!TIP]

> > The Agent classis tiny and focuses on the conversational loop, the code can be found in https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/blob/main/src/huggingface_hub/inference/_mcp/agent.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The Agent class is tiny and focuses on the conversational loop, the code can be found in https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/blob/main/src/huggingface_hub/inference/_mcp/agent.py
```

            self.messages,
            ...
        ):
            yield item 

        ... 
        
        # Exit Conditions
        # 1. Was an "exit" tool  called?
        if last.get("role") == "tool" and last.get("name") in {t.function.name for t in EXIT_LOOP_TOOLS}:
                return

        # 2. Max turns reached or LLM gave a final text answer?
        if last.get("role") != "tool" and num_turns > MAX_NUM_TURNS:
                return
        if last.get("role") != "tool" and next_turn_should_call_tools:
            return
        
        next_turn_should_call_tools = (last_message.get("role") != "tool")
```

Inside the `run()` loop:
- It first adds the user prompt to the conversation.
- Then it calls crucial `MCPClient.process_single_turn_with_tools(...)` to get the LLM's response and handle any tool executions for one step of reasoning.
- Each item is immediately yielded, enabling real-time streaming to the caller.
- After each step, it checks exit conditions: if a special “exit loop” tools was used, if a maximum turn limit is hit, or if the LLM provides a text response that seems final for the current request.

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer: - benchmark different models and different providers
- also test it on local endpoints e.g. llama.cpp 
- Call to the Community: share and open PRs with your best tiny agents!

---
title: "Tiny Agents in Python: a MCP-powered agent in ~70 lines of code"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/python-tiny-agents/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: celinah
- user: julien-c
- user: Wauplin
- user: evalstate
---
# Tiny Agents in Python: a MCP-powered agent in ~70 lines of code

Inspired by [Tiny Agents in JS](https://huggingface.co/blog/tiny-agents), we ported the idea to Python 🐍 and extended the [`huggingface_hub`](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/) client SDK to act as a MCP Client so it can pull tools from MCP servers and pass them to the LLM during inference.

> MCP ([Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)) is an open protocol that standardizes how Large Language Models (LLMs) interact with external tools and APIs. Essentially, it gets rid of the need to write custom "glue code" for each tool, making it much simpler to plug new capabilities into your LLMs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MCP ([Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)) is an open protocol that standardizes how Large Language Models (LLMs) interact with external tools and APIs. Essentially, it gets rid of the need to write custom integrations for each tool, making it simpler to plug new capabilities into your LLMs.
```

> In this blogpost, we'll explore the implementation of a _tiny_ Agent in Python that connects to MCP servers to utilize a variety of Tools. You'll discover just how surprisingly easy it is to get your own Agent up and running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this blogpost, we'll get you up and running with a _tiny_ Agent in Python connected to MCP servers to utilize a variety of Tools. You'll discover just how surprisingly easy it is to get your own Agent up and running.
```

> _Spoiler_ : An Agent is essentially a while loop built right on top of an MCP Client!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> [!TIP]
> _Spoiler_ : An Agent is essentially a while loop built right on top of an MCP Client!
```

## How to Run the Demo

First, you need to install the latest version of huggingface_hub with the mcp extra to get all the necessary components.

```bash

> pip install "huggingface_hub[mcp]==0.32.0"

Reviewer 2: Should we make it future proof for patches with a `>=` ?

Author: yes! done

> pip install "huggingface_hub[mcp]==0.32.0"

Author: ```suggestion
pip install "huggingface_hub[mcp]>=0.32.0"
```

```

> Now, you can run an agent using the CLI. The coolest part? You can load agents directly from the Hugging Face Hub [tiny-agents](https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents) Dataset or specify a path to your own local agent configuration! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, let's run an agent using the CLI! 

The coolest part is that you can load agents directly from the Hugging Face Hub in a [tiny-agents](https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents) Dataset or specify a path to your own local agent configuration! 
```

│   path      [PATH]  Path to a local folder containing an agent.json file or a built-in agent stored in the 'tiny-agents/tiny-agents' Hugging Face dataset                         │
│                     (https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents)                                                                                                     │
╰───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
╭─ Options ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ --help          Show this message and exit.                                                                                                                                       │
╰───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

```

> The following command loads an agent configured to use [Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct) model via Nebius inference provider, and it comes equipped with a playwright MCP server, enabling it to perform browser automation tasks. The agent config is loaded from the [tiny-agents/tiny-agents](https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents) Hugging Face dataset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following command loads an agent configured to use [Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct) model via Nebius inference provider, and it comes equipped with a playwright MCP server, which let's it use a web browser! The agent config is loaded from the [tiny-agents/tiny-agents](https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents) Hugging Face dataset.
```

### Agent Configuration 

Each agent's behavior (its default model, inference provider, which MCP servers to connect to, and its initial system prompt) is defined by an `agent.json` file. You can also provide a custom `PROMPT.md` in the same directory for a more detailed system prompt. Here is an example:

`agent.json`
```json

{
    "model": "Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct",
    "provider": "nebius",
    "servers": [
        {
            "type": "http", 
            // An "http" MCP server is a web service that exposes Tools for the Agent.
            // The Agent communicates with it over HTTP/HTTPS using the URL below
            // to discover and execute those tools.
            "config": {
                "url": "https://evalstate-hf-mcp-server.hf.space/mcp"
            }
        }
    ]
}

```
`PROMPT.md`

```
You are an agent - please keep going until the user’s query is completely resolved [...]

```

> [!TIP]
> You can find more details about Hugging Face Inference Providers [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-providers/index).

### LLMs Can Use Tools

> modern LLMs are built for function calling (or tool use), which enables users to easily build applications tailored to specific use cases and real-world tasks. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Modern LLMs are built for function calling (or tool use), which enables users to easily build applications tailored to specific use cases and real-world tasks. 
```

    function_args = json.loads(tool_call.function.arguments or "{}")

    # Prepare a message to store the tool's result
    tool_message = {"role": "tool", "tool_call_id": tool_call.id, "content": "", "name": function_name}

    # a. Is this a special "exit loop" tool?
    if exit_loop_tools and function_name in [t.function.name for t in exit_loop_tools]:
        # If so, yield a message and terminate this turn's processing
        messages.append(ChatCompletionInputMessage.parse_obj_as_instance(tool_message))
        yield ChatCompletionInputMessage.parse_obj_as_instance(tool_message)
        return # The Agent's main loop will handle this signal

    # b. It's a regular tool: find the MCP session and execute it
    session = self.sessions.get(function_name) # self.sessions maps tool names to MCP connections
    if session is not None:
        result = await session.call_tool(function_name, function_args)
        tool_message["content"] = format_result(result) # format_result processes tool output
    else:
        tool_message["content"] = f"Error: No session found for tool: {function_name}"

    # Add tool result to history and yield it
    ...

```

> here, it first check if the tool called is a special control signal (an `exit_loop_tool`). If not, it finds the correct MCP session responsible for that tool and calls `session.call_tool()`. The result (it can be an error as well) is then formatted, added to the conversation history, and yielded so the Agent is aware of the tool's output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here, it first checks if the tool called exits the loop (`exit_loop_tool`). If not, it finds the correct MCP session responsible for that tool and calls `session.call_tool()`. The result (or error response) is then formatted, added to the conversation history, and yielded so the Agent is aware of the tool's output.
```

```python
# Key parts of Agent.run() in agent.py
async def run(self, user_input: str, *, abort_event: Optional[asyncio.Event] = None, ...) -> AsyncGenerator[...]:
    ...
    while True: # Main loop for processing the user_input
        ...

        # Delegate to MCPClient to interact with LLM and tools for one step.
        # This streams back LLM text, tool call info, and tool results.
        async for item in self.process_single_turn_with_tools(
            self.messages,
            ...
        ):
            yield item 

        ... 
        
        # Exit Conditions
        # 1. Was an "exit" tool  called?
        if last.get("role") == "tool" and last.get("name") in {t.function.name for t in EXIT_LOOP_TOOLS}:
                return

        # 2. Max turns reached or LLM gave a final text answer?
        if last.get("role") != "tool" and num_turns > MAX_NUM_TURNS:
                return
        if last.get("role") != "tool" and next_turn_should_call_tools:
            return
        
        next_turn_should_call_tools = (last_message.get("role") != "tool")
```

Inside the `run()` loop:
- It first adds the user prompt to the conversation.

> - Then it calls crucial `MCPClient.process_single_turn_with_tools(...)` to get the LLM's response and handle any tool executions for one step of reasoning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Then it calls `MCPClient.process_single_turn_with_tools(...)` to get the LLM's response and handle any tool executions for one step of reasoning.
```

- Each item is immediately yielded, enabling real-time streaming to the caller.
- After each step, it checks exit conditions: if a special “exit loop” tools was used, if a maximum turn limit is hit, or if the LLM provides a text response that seems final for the current request.

## Next Steps

> there are a lot of cool ways to explore and expand upon the MCP Client and the Tiny Agent 🔥 Here are some ideas to get you started:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are a lot of cool ways to explore and expand upon the MCP Client and the Tiny Agent 🔥 Here are some ideas to get you started:
```

---
title: "Tiny Agents in Python: a MCP-powered agent in ~70 lines of code"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/python-tiny-agents/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: celinah
- user: julien-c
- user: Wauplin

> - user: evalstate

Reviewer 3: can we associate an org to them and this would also need `guest: True`

Author: done in [c1d29f7](https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/2869/commits/c1d29f78038d6fe30bda820fcc0b880df966163c)

---
title: "Tiny Agents in Python: a MCP-powered agent in ~70 lines of code"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/python-tiny-agents/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: celinah
- user: julien-c
- user: Wauplin
- user: evalstate
  guest: true
---
# Tiny Agents in Python: a MCP-powered agent in ~70 lines of code

> Inspired by [Tiny Agents in JS](https://huggingface.co/blog/tiny-agents), we ported the idea to Python 🐍 and extended the [`huggingface_hub`](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/) client SDK to act as a MCP Client so it can pull tools from MCP servers and pass them to the LLM during inference.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Inspired by [Tiny Agents in JS](https://huggingface.co/blog/tiny-agents), we ported the idea to Python 🐍 and extended the [`huggingface_hub`](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/) client SDK to act as a MCP Client so it can pull tools from MCP servers and pass them to the LLM during inference.

```

MCP ([Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)) is an open protocol that standardizes how Large Language Models (LLMs) interact with external tools and APIs. Essentially, it gets rid of the need to write custom integrations for each tool, making it simpler to plug new capabilities into your LLMs.

In this blogpost, we'll get you up and running with a _tiny_ Agent in Python connected to MCP servers to utilize a variety of Tools. You'll discover just how surprisingly easy it is to get your own Agent up and running.

> [!TIP]
> _Spoiler_ : An Agent is essentially a while loop built right on top of an MCP Client!

## How to Run the Demo

First, you need to install the latest version of huggingface_hub with the mcp extra to get all the necessary components.

```bash
pip install "huggingface_hub[mcp]>=0.32.0"
```

Now, let's run an agent using the CLI! 

> The coolest part is that you can load agents directly from the Hugging Face Hub in a [tiny-agents](https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents) Dataset or specify a path to your own local agent configuration! 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The coolest part is that you can load agents directly from the Hugging Face Hub [tiny-agents](https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents) Dataset, or specify a path to your own local agent configuration! 
```

│   path      [PATH]  Path to a local folder containing an agent.json file or a built-in agent stored in the 'tiny-agents/tiny-agents' Hugging Face dataset                         │
│                     (https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents)                                                                                                     │
╰───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
╭─ Options ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ --help          Show this message and exit.                                                                                                                                       │
╰───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

```

> The following command loads an agent configured to use [Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct) model via Nebius inference provider, and it comes equipped with a playwright MCP server, which lets it use a web browser! The agent config is loaded from the [tiny-agents/tiny-agents](https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents) Hugging Face dataset.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following command loads an agent configured to use [Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct) model via Nebius inference provider, and it comes equipped with a playwright MCP server, which lets it use a web browser! The agent config is loaded specifying [its path in the `tiny-agents/tiny-agents`](https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents/tree/main/julien-c/local-coder) Hugging Face dataset.
```

```bash
> tiny-agents run julien-c/local-coder
```
**TODO:** add video demo and snippet above

> When you run an agent, you'll see it load, listing the tools it has discovered from its connected MCP servers. Then, it's ready for your prompts!

Reviewer 4: Perhaps we could explain around here that the content above is about how to _use_ agents submitted by the community, while below shows how it all works (including snippets from the huggingface_hub implementation), and how you can create your own agents.

Another idea we could potentially include somewhere is to [briefly point this out](https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents/blob/main/julien-c/flux-schnell-generator/agent.json) as a way to build agents from Spaces (we have already communicated about it, but still).

Author: > Perhaps we could explain around here that the content above is about how to use agents submitted by the community, while below shows how it all works (including snippets from the huggingface_hub implementation), and how you can create your own agents.

very good point! addressed in [908ccca](https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/2869/commits/908ccca81417fed27da684f0247ae6f695a65b52)

> Another idea we could potentially include somewhere is to [briefly point this out](https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents/blob/main/julien-c/flux-schnell-generator/agent.json) as a way to build agents from Spaces (we have already communicated about it, but still).

I included another demo for that in [d994f20](https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/2869/commits/d994f20e181de105b485806df307b2c42cbb9c92)

### Agent Configuration 

Each agent's behavior (its default model, inference provider, which MCP servers to connect to, and its initial system prompt) is defined by an `agent.json` file. You can also provide a custom `PROMPT.md` in the same directory for a more detailed system prompt. Here is an example:

`agent.json`
```json

{
    "model": "Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct",
    "provider": "nebius",
    "servers": [
        {
            "type": "http", 
            // An "http" MCP server is a web service that exposes Tools for the Agent.
            // The Agent communicates with it over HTTP/HTTPS using the URL below
            // to discover and execute those tools.
            "config": {
                "url": "https://evalstate-hf-mcp-server.hf.space/mcp"
            }
        }
    ]
}

> 

Reviewer 4: Should we use the same agent example for consistency? (https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents/blob/main/julien-c/local-coder/agent.json)

Also, perhaps we could remind that this will use that model using `nebius` as an inference provider, so the tip below is a bit more grounded.

Author: Yes, added a comment here: [1c10fd0](https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/2869/commits/1c10fd08ba7a65183bbe316cdeeb7947c0933fb5)

```

> [!TIP]
> You can find more details about Hugging Face Inference Providers [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-providers/index).

### LLMs Can Use Tools

Modern LLMs are built for function calling (or tool use), which enables users to easily build applications tailored to specific use cases and real-world tasks. 

A function is defined by its schema, which informs the LLM what it does and what input arguments it expects. The LLM decides when to use a tool, the Agent then orchestrates running the tool and feeding the result back.

```python
tools = [
        {
            "type": "function",
            "function": {
                "name": "get_weather",
                "description": "Get current temperature for a given location.",
                "parameters": {
                    "type": "object",
                    "properties": {
                        "location": {
                            "type": "string",
                            "description": "City and country e.g. Paris, France"
                        }
                    },
                    "required": ["location"],
                },
            }
        }
]
```

> `InferenceClient` implements the same tool calling interface as the [OpenAI Chat Completions API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/function-calling?api-mode=chat), which is the established standard for inference providers and the community

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`InferenceClient` implements the same tool calling interface as the [OpenAI Chat Completions API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/function-calling?api-mode=chat), which is the established standard for inference providers and the community.
```

        # for "stdio": {"command": "my_tool_server_cmd", "args": ["--port", "1234"]}
        # for "http": {"url": "http://my.tool.server/mcp"}

        # 1. Establish connection based on type (stdio, sse, http)
        #    (Uses mcp.client.stdio_client, sse_client, or streamablehttp_client)
        read, write = await self.exit_stack.enter_async_context(...)

        # 2. Create an MCP ClientSession
        session = await self.exit_stack.enter_async_context(
            ClientSession(read_stream=read, write_stream=write, ...)
        )
        await session.initialize()

        # 3. List tools from the server
        response = await session.list_tools()
        for tool in response.tools:
            # Store session for this tool
            self.sessions[tool.name] = session 
            #  Add tool to the list of available tools and Format for LLM
            self.available_tools.append({ 
                "type": "function",
                "function": {
                    "name": tool.name,
                    "description": tool.description,
                    "parameters": tool.input_schema,
                },
            })

```

> It supports `stdio` servers for local tools (like accessing your file system), and `http` servers for remote tools! (and even compatible with `sse` which is the previous standard for remote tools)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It supports `stdio` servers for local tools (like accessing your file system), and `http` servers for remote tools! It's also compatible with `sse`, which is the previous standard for remote tools.
```

## Using the Tools: Streaming and Processing

The `MCPClient`'s `process_single_turn_with_tools` method is where the LLM interaction happens. It sends the conversation history and available tools to the LLM via `AsyncInferenceClient.chat.completions.create(..., stream=True)`.

### 1. Prepare tools and calling the LLM

> First, the method determines all tools the LLM should be aware of for the current turn – this includes tools from MCP servers and any special "exit loop" tools for agent control, then, it makes a streaming call to the LLM

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
First, the method determines all tools the LLM should be aware of for the current turn – this includes tools from MCP servers and any special "exit loop" tools for agent control; then, it makes a streaming call to the LLM:
```

```python
# From MCPClient.process_single_turn_with_tools

    # Prepare tools list based on options
    tools = self.available_tools
    if exit_loop_tools is not None:
        tools = [*exit_loop_tools, *self.available_tools]

    # Create the streaming request to the LLM
    response = await self.client.chat.completions.create(
        messages=messages,
        tools=tools,
        tool_choice="auto",  # LLM decides if it needs a tool
        stream=True,  
    )

```

As chunks arrive from the LLM, the method iterates through them. Each chunk is immediately yielded, then we reconstruct the complete text response and any tool calls.

```python

> # Lines 242-279 of `MCPClient.process_single_turn_with_tools`

Reviewer 4: Nice breadcrumbs! Maybe also use a link in the text above for people that want to see it in context.

Author: Thanks! i've added links to code snippets in [e673cb2](https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/2869/commits/e673cb2e92b249b8613f142b89409953aa19d491)

---
title: "Tiny Agents in Python: a MCP-powered agent in ~70 lines of code"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/python-tiny-agents/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: celinah
- user: julien-c
- user: Wauplin
- user: evalstate
  guest: true
---
# Tiny Agents in Python: a MCP-powered agent in ~70 lines of code

Inspired by [Tiny Agents in JS](https://huggingface.co/blog/tiny-agents), we ported the idea to Python 🐍 and extended the [`huggingface_hub`](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/) client SDK to act as a MCP Client so it can pull tools from MCP servers and pass them to the LLM during inference.

> MCP ([Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)) is an open protocol that standardizes how Large Language Models (LLMs) interact with external tools and APIs. Essentially, it gets rid of the need to write custom integrations for each tool, making it simpler to plug new capabilities into your LLMs.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
MCP ([Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)) is an open protocol that standardizes how Large Language Models (LLMs) interact with external tools and APIs. Essentially, it removed the need to write custom integrations for each tool, making it simpler to plug new capabilities into your LLMs.
```

╰───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
╭─ Options ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ --help          Show this message and exit.                                                                                                                                       │
╰───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

```

If you don't provide a path to a specific agent configuration, our Tiny Agent will connect by default to the following two MCP servers:

- the "canonical" [file system server](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/filesystem), which gets access to your Desktop,
- and the [Playwright MCP](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright-mcp) server, which knows how to use a sandboxed Chromium browser for you.

> The following example shows a web-browsing agent configured to use [Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct) model via Nebius inference provider, and it comes equipped with a playwright MCP server, which lets it use a web browser! The agent config is loaded specifying [its path in the `tiny-agents/tiny-agents`](https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents/tree/main/celinah/web-browser) Hugging Face dataset.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following example shows a web-browsing agent configured to use the [Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct) model via Nebius inference provider, and it comes equipped with a playwright MCP server, which lets it use a web browser! The agent config is loaded specifying [its path in the `tiny-agents/tiny-agents`](https://huggingface.co/datasets/tiny-agents/tiny-agents/tree/main/celinah/web-browser) Hugging Face dataset.
```

<video controls autoplay loop>
  <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/python-tiny-agents/image-generation.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

Prompt used in this demo:

> Generate a 1024x1024 image of a tiny astronaut hatching from an egg on the surface of the moon.

Now that you've seen how to run existing Tiny Agents, the following sections will dive deeper into how they work and how to build your own.

### Agent Configuration 

Each agent's behavior (its default model, inference provider, which MCP servers to connect to, and its initial system prompt) is defined by an `agent.json` file. You can also provide a custom `PROMPT.md` in the same directory for a more detailed system prompt. Here is an example:

`agent.json`
```json
{
    // LLM and inference provider used by the agent
	"model": "Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct",
	"provider": "nebius",
	"servers": [
		{

>             // A "stdio" MCP server runs as a local process.

Reviewer 5: tiniest nit: I'd make this comments into markdown above

A function is defined by its schema, which informs the LLM what it does and what input arguments it expects. The LLM decides when to use a tool, the Agent then orchestrates running the tool and feeding the result back.

```python
tools = [
        {
            "type": "function",
            "function": {
                "name": "get_weather",
                "description": "Get current temperature for a given location.",
                "parameters": {
                    "type": "object",
                    "properties": {
                        "location": {
                            "type": "string",
                            "description": "City and country e.g. Paris, France"
                        }
                    },
                    "required": ["location"],
                },
            }
        }
]
```

`InferenceClient` implements the same tool calling interface as the [OpenAI Chat Completions API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/function-calling?api-mode=chat), which is the established standard for inference providers and the community.

> ## Building our Python MCP Client (Now in `huggingface_hub`!)

Reviewer 5: <img width="277" alt="Screenshot 2025-05-23 at 15 12 40" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8bea8b2e-e704-40a4-b4fe-ddd04a627b04" />
renders a bit not pretty

Author: good catch! removed it in [d84ea10](https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/2869/commits/d84ea10648626f683c4e15ba625e3e80e4358aee)

            self.messages,
            ...
        ):
            yield item 

        ... 
        
        # Exit Conditions
        # 1. Was an "exit" tool  called?
        if last.get("role") == "tool" and last.get("name") in {t.function.name for t in EXIT_LOOP_TOOLS}:
                return

        # 2. Max turns reached or LLM gave a final text answer?
        if last.get("role") != "tool" and num_turns > MAX_NUM_TURNS:
                return
        if last.get("role") != "tool" and next_turn_should_call_tools:
            return
        
        next_turn_should_call_tools = (last_message.get("role") != "tool")
```

Inside the `run()` loop:
- It first adds the user prompt to the conversation.
- Then it calls `MCPClient.process_single_turn_with_tools(...)` to get the LLM's response and handle any tool executions for one step of reasoning.
- Each item is immediately yielded, enabling real-time streaming to the caller.
- After each step, it checks exit conditions: if a special "exit loop" tools was used, if a maximum turn limit is hit, or if the LLM provides a text response that seems final for the current request.

## Next Steps

> There are a lot of cool ways to explore and expand upon the MCP Client and the Tiny Agent 🔥 Here are some ideas to get you started:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
There are a lot of cool ways to explore and expand upon the MCP Client and the Tiny Agent 🔥 
Here are some ideas to get you started:
```
